### Browse View

A Content can be presented in 3 different modes depending on whether the Content is to be edited, to be browsed or to be created. Different Views can be chosen for the Content according to these 3 main scenarios.

A View Control is a Reactjs component that defines the layout of the HTML block that represents a Content.  Views are built up of Field Controls - displaying values of Content Fields - embedded into custom HTML layout. The View defines the custom HTML to be rendered when the underlying Content is displayed. As a Content is built up of Fields the View displays the Content using Field Controls to provide a surface to display/modify the Field values of the Content. The View therefore depends on the Content Type of the specific Content (since it defines the Fields of the Content) but a specific Content can be displayed using various Views.

To present a Content using a View Control in practice means that you may choose a View Control to present the Content with. For example in this case you have to choose ```BrowseView``` set the repository of your app and the Content itself and you'll get an autogenerated ui with visible fields and their values. The fields that should be displayed are defined in the Content Type Definition with the property ```VisibleBrowse``` and generated into the typescript classes schema. The control mapper collects the fields that should be displayed on the current view and assignes the related Field Controls to build up the ui.

#### Under the hood:

Visibility of the field should be configured in the Content Type definition and in the schema object. The field's ```VisibleBrowse``` property should have the value *Show* in the Content Type Definition and 0 in the Typescript schema object.

```xml
...
<Field name="LongTextField" type="LongText">
      <DisplayName>Description</DisplayName>
      <Configuration>
        ...
        <VisibleBrowse>Show</VisibleBrowse>
        ...
      </Configuration>
    </Field>
...
```
```ts
...
{
    ContentTypeName: 'Folder',
    DisplayName: 'Folder',
    Description: 'Use folders to group content.',
    ...
    FieldSettings: [
      {
        Name: 'Description',
        FieldClassName: 'SenseNet.ContentRepository.Fields.LongTextField',
        DisplayName: 'Description',
        Description: 'Description of the content.',
        ReadOnly: false,
        Compulsory: false,
        OutputMethod: 0,
        VisibleBrowse: 0,
        VisibleEdit: 0,
        VisibleNew: 0,
        Type: 'LongTextFieldSetting',
      },
    ],
  },
...
```

There's a [control mapper](https://community.sensenet.com/api/@sensenet/control-mapper/index.html), that keeps connection between FieldSettings in the schema and FieldControl components, so it can autogenerate forms by the schema definition. Mapper knows which component should represent the current field. It passes every info to the related FieldControl generating the field list that is needed.