examples/sn-dms-demo/README.md, before:

# sn-dms-demo

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo](https://badges.gitter.im/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.svg)](https://gitter.im/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/708a03362ad447958a6830badfc61d80)](https://www.codacy.com/app/herflis33/sn-dms-demo?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=SenseNet/sn-dms-demo&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo/LICENSE.txt)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
[![Commitizen friendly](https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/)
[![Greenkeeper badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)

sensenet ECM Document Management demo with React.

[![Sense/Net Services](https://img.shields.io/badge/sensenet-7.0.0--beta3%20tested-green.svg)](https://github.com/SenseNet/sensenet/releases/tag/v7.0.0-beta3)

## Install and start

```
$ git clone https://github.com/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.git
$ cd sn-dms-demo
$ npm install
$ npm start
```

## Running Tests

```
$ npm test
```

The app is built with [create-react-app-typescript](https://github.com/wmonk/create-react-app-typescript) the TypeScript version of [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app), so for further information about build, test, config, etc. issues, check them on github.

Commit message:

Features/dms registration (#14)
* feat(Add registration form):

* feat: Add registration related string resources

* fix(Login): Fix login button onclick

* feat: Email validation on client-side and format hint in the placeholder

* feat(Registration): Add password format check

Password needs to be longer than 8 characters, needs to contain numbers, capitals and special
characters

* feat(Registration): Add password confirmation

* fix(Registration): Improve password validation

* feat(Registration): Improve registration process

Registration Actions, Epic and Reducers are added

* chore(privacypolicy): Add cookieconsent

Add cookieconsent to inform users about our privacy policy. Keep in mind, that the url of the
privacy policy content should be changed after we have one for the mvps

* feat(Registration): Add recaptcha

* docs(Readme): Add a short info about the enviroment variables

examples/sn-dms-demo/README.md, after:

# sn-dms-demo

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo](https://badges.gitter.im/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.svg)](https://gitter.im/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/708a03362ad447958a6830badfc61d80)](https://www.codacy.com/app/herflis33/sn-dms-demo?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=SenseNet/sn-dms-demo&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo/LICENSE.txt)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
[![Commitizen friendly](https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/)
[![Greenkeeper badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)

sensenet ECM Document Management demo with React.

[![Sense/Net Services](https://img.shields.io/badge/sensenet-7.0.0--beta3%20tested-green.svg)](https://github.com/SenseNet/sensenet/releases/tag/v7.0.0-beta3)

## Install and start

```
$ git clone https://github.com/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo.git
$ cd sn-dms-demo
$ npm install
$ npm start
```

Please set the following enviroment variables:
- REACT_APP_SERVICE_URL: url of the site that has at least [sensenet services](https://github.com/SenseNet/sensenet) installed (default value is ```https://sn-local``` so if you have a site installed locally with this url, you have nothing to do with this).
- REACT_APP_RECAPTCHA_KEY: [Google ReCAPTCHA](https://www.google.com/recaptcha/intro/) sitekey. Without this registration won't work.

## Running Tests

```
$ npm test
```

The app is built with [create-react-app-typescript](https://github.com/wmonk/create-react-app-typescript) the TypeScript version of [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app), so for further information about build, test, config, etc. issues, check them on github.
